= GoingPostal

The GoingPostal mixin provides classes with postcode formatting and validation
methods.  It does _not_ provide external verification methods such as checking
for the existence of a postcode against the UK PAF database.

== Installation

  $ gem install going_postal

== Usage

GoingPostal can be used as a mixin:

  class Address
    include GoingPostal
    attr_accessor :number, :street, :city, :postcode, :country_code
    
    def initialize(number, street, :city, postcode, country_code="GB")
      self.number = number
      self.street = street
      self.city = city
      self.postcode = postcode
      self.country_code = country_code
    end
    
    def postcode=(value)
      @postcode = format_postcode(value)
    end
    
    def valid?
      number && street && city && postcode_valid?
    end
  end

or as a namespaced collection of methods:

  GoingPostal.postcode?("sl41eg", "GB")      #=> "SL4 1EG"
  GoingPostal.postcode?("200378001", "US")   #=> "20037-8001"

The methods available are #postcode? for checking validity, and format_postcode
which returns a formatted postcode. Both take arguments of a string, the
postcode, and a two letter country code. If the class has a #country_code
method, the country_code argument on the provided methods becomes optional. If
the class also has one of #postcode, #post_code, #zipcode, #zip_code, or #zip,
the string argument on the provided methods becomes optional.

postcode? is aliased as post_code?, zip?, zipcode?, zip_code?, valid_postcode?,
valid_post_code?, valid_zip?, valid_zipcode?, valid_zip_code?, postcode_valid?,
post_code_valid?, zip_valid?, zipcode_valid? and zip_code_valid? The alias
valid? is also available directly on the GoingPostal module.

format_postcode is aliased as format_post_code, format_zip, format_zipcode, and
format_zip_code.

== Licence

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2011,2012,2013 Global Personals, Ltd.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.
